---
title: Auditing
tags: [Fall 2019, Accounting]
style: fill
color: success
description: Provides information on theory, methodology, and specific techniques used in the verification/presentation of financial data provided. Course introduces specific verification services, including assurance, attest, and audit services while concentrating on external audits of publicly traded companies. Audit techniques, documentation of work completed, and audit opinions are studied and performed by the student. Accounting capstone.
---

#### Course Description

---

The course provides information on the theory, methodology, and specific techniques used in the verification and presentation of financial data provided to outsiders.  The course introduces specific verification services, including assurance, attest, and audit services.  Audit techniques, documentation of work completed, and audit opinions are studied and performed by the students.

<br>

#### Learning Goals

---

- **Communication and Presentation Skills** – Both oral and written communication skills will be refined during the class. Among the oral communication opportunities during the semester: in-class case analysis performed in groups, where students will actively engage in discussions within the groups and in the larger class, and oral interviews with employees of organizations that they are auditing.  Among the written communication opportunities during the semester: written responses on cases prepared prior to class, formal written audit work papers, a report on the audit conducted by student groups, and a written report of a client risk analysis. 

- **Quantitative Competencies** – Quantitative competencies will be enforced in consideration of statistical sampling techniques for audits and in financial statement analysis as part of determining audit risk and substantive tests.   

- **Analytic and Decision Making Competencies** – This class requires and further develops decision-making skills.  Many problems and cases introduced in class require an analytical approach to assessing assertions and determining a plan of action.  

- **International Business Competencies** – This course focuses upon auditing services required for reporting in the United States.  GAAP, GAAS, and audit standards of the PCAOB are those used by corporations reporting information in the United States. However, international accounting principles and audit literature are also considered throughout the semester.  

- **Ethics and Social Responsibility Competencies** – Auditors have a professional code of ethics that outlines the minimum standards auditors follow.  Recently the integrity of auditing has been questioned, by government and financial regulators, among others, who claim that auditors have been negligent in execution of even minimum standards.  In class, we will address the ethical implications of auditors’ actions when discussing the execution of assurance services.  

- **Leadership, Team and Interpersonal Competencies** – Students will work in groups to prepare an internal control analysis and audit of an actual entity. This will involve interviewing the client, testing the controls, and performing substantive work.  Teams will work together in all phases of the assignment and will prepare a group working paper and report for review.  Additionally, students will jointly prepare and present an oral presentation reporting their results. This assignment requires cooperation both during class and outside of class, when significant time is needed both to work with the client during their working hours, and to plan and document the results of the audit. During class sessions, groups will often work on structured problems.  Out-of-class group work for the weekly assignments is not required.  However, students often find that working together on homework is helpful, and students may want to form groups for this purpose.  Outside group-work is particularly recommended for analyses of cases assigned.

- **Business Knowledge Competencies** – An audit requires that the auditor fully understand all aspects of a business enterprise, as auditors integrate financial accounting theory and mechanics with the design of procedures to test the assertions concerning accounting information. The class should solidify comprehension of financial information for understanding business.

<br>

#### Course Objectives

---

By the end of the semester students will:
- Understand distinctions in assurance, attest, and audit services
- Learn how to objectively obtain and evaluate risk, materiality, and evidence regarding assertions about actions and events 
- Learn the audit process to plan, coordinate, and execute a financial audit and an audit of internal controls
- Learn ways to effectively communicate with clients
- Perform an audit, including planning the work, preparing an internal control review, performing substantive testing of reported transactions, evaluating the results, preparing a client letter offering suggestions for financial control, and documenting the audit work performed in working papers.
- Understand the types of authoritative auditing literature